Team Red Miner Clocks/Voltages Control Support
==============================================

This document provides additional info on the clocks/voltages/timings
control support in TeamReadMiner. Historically, we have not focused on
building a one stop shop software that handles auxiliary features,
we've rather concentrated on the mining algorithms and gpu kernel
implementations and rather let external tools handle things like
clocks and voltage control.

However, since there's no longer a tool like OverdriveNTool that can
configure Big Navi cards using automated command-line setups at
startup, TRM v0.8.5 adds basic support on Windows only for controlling
core clk, core voltage, mem clk, mem voltage (when applicable) and
selecting timings from the driver's built-in available sets.

We might add linux support and more features later on.


Arguments
---------
These arguments are described in the --help output from the miner as
well. All arguments are comma-separated lists of values, where any
value can be empty if you don't want to configure that gpu.

--clk_core_mhz  Sets the core clk frequency.

--clk_core_mv   Sets the core voltage.

--clk_mem_mhz   Sets the mem clk frequency.

--clk_mem_mv    Sets the mem voltage (ignored for Navis and Big Navis).

--clk_timing    Chooses e.g. the default or "fast" timings for Big Navis.
		This is not a generic timing modifications argument, it
		only chooses between the timing sets available in the
		Windows Adrenalin driver.


Examples
--------
Three gpu Navi10 rig, middle gpu not configured:

teamredminer.exe -a ethash ... --clk_core_mhz=1275,,1250 --clk_core_mv=750,,725  --clk_mem_mhz=1820,,1800 

Two gpu Big Navi rig, both using "fast timings" as well as setting clocks:

teamredminer.exe -a ethash ... --clk_core_mhz=1050,1100 --clk_core_mv=675,675  --clk_mem_mhz=2120,2140 --clk_timing=1,1 


Polaris GPUs
------------
Polaris gpus uses the core clk+voltage and mem clk+voltage
arguments. The highest core and mem p-states are always configured and
used. Clock and voltage values for lower states are scaled linearly to
always have a lower value than higher states.

For more exact control, use a different tool like OverdriveNTool.


Rx Vega GPUs
------------
Like Polaris gpus, Rx Vega gpus uses the core clk+voltage and mem
clk+voltage arguments. The highest core and mem p-states are always
configured and used. Clock and voltage values for lower states are
scaled linearly to always have a lower value than higher states.

However, this is not enough to unlock using a < 900mV voltage for Rx
Vegas on Windows, you need a powerplay table modification of the
stubborn mem p2 state. This state is locked at 900mV and can't be
changed through the ADL API, nor Radeon Settings. You will be able to
_configure_ other p-states with < 900mV values, but the mem p2 state
will still be blocking them, effectively driving up the voltage used
to 900mV.

To be able to lower your voltage < 900mV, do the following:

1) Download the latest gpu-z version from TechPowerUp.

2) Download OverdriveNTool 0.2.9 from the Guru3d forum thread, it's
   just a dropbox link.

3) Open gpu-z, select your Vega in the gpu dropdown list at the very
   bottom of the gui. Save the bios by clicking arrow icon right next
   to the bios version textbox.

4) Open OverdriveNTool as Administrator, i.e. right-click the program
   and choose "Run as Administrator". Select your Vega in the gpu
   dropdown list.

5) Right-click the title bar of the program, i.e. the "OverdriveNTool
   0.2.9" text and choose the "PPTable Editor".

6) If you already have a powerplay table stored in the registry, it
   will appear and you can edit the mem p2 voltage to your targeted
   voltage. Otherwise, it needs to be bootstrapped using your saved
   bios: choose "Create new using bios file" and click "Open bios/reg
   file", find your saved bios and open it.

7) In the editor that appears, set the "Memory default" P2 voltage to
   either your target voltage or a slightly lower value. This will
   also change the "GPU default" P1 voltage since they are using the
   same underlying voltage entry.

8) Click "Save", and either let OverdriveNTool reset the gpu for you,
   or reset it yourself in the Windows device manager, or reboot.

9) You should now be able to use voltages that are >= the powerplay
   table's new value for mem P2, either with the miner's built-in
   support or using external tools.


Navi and Big Navi
=================
All Navi gpus use the core clk+voltage and mem clk arguments, as well
as setting a timing if available in the driver. Configuring values
should be straightforward.

However, to unlock lower core voltage values and other features, you
need to do powerplay table modifications, much like the process for Rx
Vegas described above. On Windows, this is typically done with
MorePowerTool, an awesome piece of software released by Igor's
lab. Note that Navi10 gpus can also flash a bios with modified mem
timings and include the modifications there in the bios' default
powerplay table.

There are plenty of videos and resources available that describes this
process, a few mins of googling should be enough, so we won't cover it
in greater detail here.




